OCAML.ORG PROJECT
=================
This is the source code implementing the ocaml.org
website. Information here is relevant only to developers and content
contributors. End-users of the website should simply visit the
website, which is hosted at [ocaml.org](//ocaml.org).

Note: if you just want to edit a page you do not need to follow the
instructions below.  Simply click on the pen in the top right corner
of the page and you will be redirected to that page on GitHub where you
can edit it and submit your changes without leaving your browser.


DEPENDENCIES
============
Dependencies can be installed by running `make deps`, which runs the
necessary OPAM commands. See the `opam` file for more information
on the required packages.

Note this is the only purpose of the `opam` file. This repository
doesn't provide any resources intended for use in other projects, so
it is not provided as a package in any opam repository.

In addition to the above `opam` packages, it is expected that the
following programs are available:

* bash
* curl
* rsync
* GNU make


BUILD
=====
The site consists only of static pages, so it can be built and run
entirely on a local machine without dependencies on external file or
database servers. Simply run:

    make

(or `make -j` for a faster build on multicore machines.
NB: you might need to limit the number of forks e.g `make -j 8`
[ref](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org/issues/462#issuecomment-40318537)).

This will generate a new folder `ocaml.org` that contains the full
website.  Note that building the site will attempt to connect to the
Internet to download the news and latest email conversations.  As
usual, use `make clean` to delete the files generated by the
compilation.

DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
===================
`site` — Main content of the site. Most files are in Markdown syntax
         and converted to HTML by the build scripts.

`template` — Templates governing the overall look and feel of the
             site. These are applied to the pages within site/ when
             the site is built. References to templates within site
             pages should be of the form `template/template-file-name`
             because the build script assumes this directory
             structure.

`script` — Scripts used to build the site.

MAINTAINERS
===========

For maintainers of the site, the following notes describe how the site
is built and deployed:

**Deploy:** The site is currently deployed automatically using
[ocurrent-deployer](https://deploy.ocamllabs.io), which listens on the `master`
and `staging` branches.  The site is built using the Dockerfiles in
`Dockerfile.deploy` and `Dockerfile.staging` for each version of the site, and
pushed to https://ocaml.org and https://staging.ocaml.org/

**Testing:** If you wish to test a PR to see what it would look like live,
simply push the branch to the `staging` branch of ocaml/ocaml.org.git and it
will rebuild.  There is a web interface showing the status of the builds for
[ocurrent-deployer](https://deploy.ocamllabs.io).

The source code for the deployer can be found at
<https://github.com/ocurrent/ocurrent-deployer> in the `src/pipeline.ml`.

CONTACTS
========

For general discussion about the site's implementation, you can post
to the [OCaml discussion forum](http://discuss.ocaml.org/).

For a specific bug report, content suggestion, or feature request,
please create an issue on
[GitHub](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org). Or best of all, fork the
repo, make changes to your copy, and submit pull requests. It's that
easy!

