<!-- ((! set title Companies using OCaml !)) ((! set learn !)) -->

# Companies using OCaml
[Acunu](http://www.acunu.com), United Kindgom.

Acunu is writing, from the ground-up, a Storage and Analytics Platform
for Massive Data.

[Agence Nationale de la Sécurité des Systèmes d&#39;Information
(ANSSI)](http://www.ssi.gouv.fr/), France.

The ANSSI core missions are: to detect and react to cyber attacks, to
prevent threats, to provide advice and support to governmental entities
and operators of critical infrastructure, and to keep companies and the
general public informed about information security threats. See [ANSII&#39;s
GitHub page](https://github.com/anssi-fr) for some of its OCaml
software.

[Ashima Group](http://ashimagroup.net/), United States.

Ashima Group uses OCaml for geometric reasoning, GPU shader translation,
and high-performance servers. OCaml's type system, compiler, tools,
community, and design philosophy make it an extremely powerful and
versatile tool for diverse systems development tasks.

[CEA](http://www.cea.fr), France.

CEA is a French state company, member of the OCaml Consortium. It uses
OCaml mainly to develop a platform dedicated to source-code analysis of
C software, called [Frama-C](http://frama-c.com).

[Citrix](http://www.citrix.com), United Kindgom.

Citrix uses OCaml in XenServer, a world-class server virtualization
system. We also offer a full open-source variant of XenServer called the
Xen Cloud Platform, or XCP. Follow along with our OCaml development at
[github.com/xen-org](https://github.com/xen-org).

[Coherent Graphics Ltd](http://www.coherentpdf.com), United Kindgom.

Coherent Graphics is a developer of both server tools and desktop
software for the processing of PDF documents. We use OCaml as a
general-purpose high level language, chosen for its expressiveness and
speed.

[Dassault Systèmes](http://www.3ds.com/fr/), France.

[Digirati dba Hostnet](http://www.hostnet.com), Brazil.

Digirati dba Hostnet is a web hosting company. We use OCaml mostly for
internal systems programming and infrastructure services. We also have
contributed with the community by releasing a few open source OCaml
[libraries](http://github.com/andrenth).

[Digital Solutions](http://dsmagic.com), Uganda.

General programming, with wide base and experience in Mobile Telephony
programming and web application development.

[Esterel Technologies](http://www.esterel-technologies.com/), France.

[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/), USA.

To handle their huge PHP codebase, Facebook developed
[pfff](https://github.com/facebook/pfff/wiki/Main), a set of tools and
APIs to perform some static analysis, dynamic analysis, code
visualizations, code navigations, and style-preserving source-to-source
transformations such as refactorings on source code.

[Fasoo](http://www.fasoo.com), Korea.

Fasoo uses OCaml to develop a static analysis tool.

[Flying Frog Consultancy](http://ffconsultancy.com), United Kindgom.

Flying Frog Consultancy Ltd. consult and write books and software on the
use of OCaml in the context of scientific computing. OCaml excels in the
niche of intrinsically complicated programs between large-scale,
array-based programs written in languages such as HPF and small-scale,
graphical programs written in languages such as Mathematica.

[Framtidsforum I&amp;M](http://www.exceleverywhere.com), Sweden.

Framtidsforum I&amp;M sells ExcelEverywhere, which creates web pages that
look and function the same as your MS Excel spreadsheet. JavaScript is
used for calculation. Supports 140 Excel-functions. Typically used for
expense report, survey, order forms, reservation forms, employment
application, financial advisor, ROI. There are also versions that
generate ASP, ASP.NET and JSP/Java code. The compiler is written using
OCaml.

[Galois](http://www.galois.com), United States.

Galois has developed a domain specific declarative language for
cryptographic algorithms. One of our research compilers is written in
OCaml and makes very extensive use of camlp4.

[Incubaid](http://incubaid.com), Belgium.

Incubaid has developped [Arakoon](http://arakoon.org), a distributed
key-value store that guarantees consistency above anything else. We
created Arakoon due to a lack of existing solutions fitting our
requirements, and is available as Open Source software.

[IT Planning](http://www.itpl.co.jp/), Japan.

We use OCaml for some kind of enterprise systems (i.e. production
control, portfolio risk management and web services).

[Jane Street](http://www.janestreet.com), United States.

Jane Street is a quantitative proprietary trading firm that operates
around the clock and around the globe. They bring a deep understanding
of markets, a scientific approach, and innovative technology to bear on
the problem of trading profitably in the world's highly competitive
financial markets. Jane Street is perhaps the largest commercial user of
OCaml, and has attracted a very strong team of functional programmers.
They use OCaml for everything, from research infrastructure to trading
systems to operations and accounting systems. Jane Street has over 50
OCaml programmers and over a million lines of OCaml, powering a
technology platform that trades billions of dollars every day.

[LexiFi](http://www.lexifi.com), France.

LexiFi is an innovative provider of software applications and
infrastructure technology for the capital markets industry. LexiFi
Apropos is powered by an original formalism for describing financial
contracts, the result of a long-term research and development effort.

[MEDIT](http://www.medit.fr), France.

MEDIT develops [SuMo, an advanced bioinformatic
system](http://mjambon.com/phd.html) for the analysis of protein 3D
structures and the identification of drug-design targets. SuMo is
written entirely in OCaml and provides interfaces to several commercial
molecular-modelling packages.

[MLstate](http://www.mlstate.com), France.

MLstate is the creator of [Opa](http://opalang.org): an open-source web
development platform. It consists of a new programming language, a new
web server, a new database and a new distributed execution engine, all
of them tightly integrated to provide a great experience for web
developers. Opa is concise, simple, concurrent, dynamically secure and
secure out of the box. It is written mainly in OCaml and uses OCaml as
an intermediate language for compilation.

[Monoidics](http://www.monoidics.com), United Kindgom.

Monoidics develops Infer, a static analyzer for software verification.
The analysis engine is entirely written in OCaml.

[Mr. Number](http://mrnumber.com/), United States.

Mr. Number is a Silicon Valley startup that developed the Mr. Number app
for call blocking, and more recently [Skydeck](http://skydeck.com), a
photo-centric mobile app for meeting new people. OCaml is used on the
server side as the glue between the various third-party components and
services.

[MyLife](http://mylife.com), United States.

MyLife has developped a powerful people search tool that will empower
those in need to find anyone, regardless of years past and the life that
was built in between.

[Narrow Gate Logic](http://nglogic.com), Poland.

Narrow Gate Logic is a company using the OCaml language in business and
non-business applications.

[OCamlPro](http://www.ocamlpro.com), France.

OCamlPro develops and maintains a development environment for the OCaml
language. They provide services for companies deciding to use OCaml.
Among these services: trainings, necessary expertises, tools and
libraries long-term support, and specific developments to their
applicative domains.

[PRUDENT Technologies and Consulting,
Inc.](http://www.prudentconsulting.com/), United States.

[Psellos](http://psellos.com), United States.

Psellos is a small group of computer scientists who became intrigued by
the idea of coding iOS apps in OCaml. It has worked out better than we
expected (you can buy our apps in the iTunes App Store), and at least
one other company sells apps built with our tools. Our most recent iOS
cross compiler is derived from OCaml 4.00.0.

[RunOrg](http://runorg.com), France.

RunOrg provides non-profits and organizations with a private intranet
and public website using a SaaS model. The application is written
entirely in OCaml for two reasons : one is performance, as OCaml
generates fast binaries and supports elegant optimization patterns.<br />
 The other reason is that the flexible and powerful compile-time type
inference allows massive changes in the code base without causing any
bugs, effectively acting as a compiler-generated unit testing suite.<br />
 The software is powered by an open source in-house web framework,
[Ohm](https://github.com/VictorNicollet/Ohm).

[Sakhalin, LLC](http://www.seaiq.com/), United States.

Sakhalin develops marine charting apps for Apple iPads and iPhones. The
full featured apps display marine charts, GPS and onboard sensor data,
Automatic Identification System, weather data, anchor monitoring, etc.
The apps have a wide range of users, from occasional recreational
boaters to professional river/harbor pilots that board large freighters.
They are free to download and try (with a paid upgrade to enable all
features). They are written almost entirely in Ocaml with a minor amount
of glue to interface with IOS API's. Ocaml was chosen because it (1)
enables the rapid development of extremely reliable and high performance
software, (2) is a mature stable platform, and (3) has a wide range of
libraries. It was made possible by the great work done by Psellos in
porting Ocaml to the Apple IOS platform. Feel free to contact Sakhalin
if you have any questions about using Ocaml on IOS.

[Shiro Games](http://shirogames.com), France.

Shiro Games is developping games using [Haxe](http://haxe.org), a
language built with a compiler written in OCaml.

[Sleekersoft P/L](http://www.sleekersoft.com), Australia.

Specialises in functional programming software development, consultation
and training.

[Studio Associato 4Sigma](http://www.4sigma.it), Italy.

4Sigma is a small firm making websites and some interesting web
applications. OCaml is not the main language used but it is used here
and there, particularly in a small server that is a key component of a
service we offer our customers.

[Vector Fabrics](http://www.vectorfabrics.com/), The Netherlands.

Vector Fabrics is a high-tech software company, developing tools for
embedded multicore programming. Its technology and expertise is getting
widespread recognition in the industry as being innovative and unique in
their ability to address heterogeneous multicore application-specific
silicon platforms. Due to the advanced nature of its tools, Vector
Fabrics operates at the forefront of the next generation of embedded
platforms for diverse markets ranging from supercomputers to automotive
to cell phones.

####  Disclaimer
Appearance of a company's name here does not necessarily imply
endorsement by that company of OCaml or of the descriptions provided
here. Company representatives should [contact
us](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org) to have information about their
company removed, modified, or added.


