<!-- ((! set title A History of OCaml !)) ((! set learn !)) -->

# A History of OCaml
“Caml” was originally an acronym for *Categorical Abstract Machine
Language*. It was a pun on CAM, the Categorical Abstract Machine, and
ML, the family of programming languages to which Caml belongs. The name
Caml has remained throughout the evolution of the language, even though
the present implementation has no relation with the CAM.

Caml was first designed and implemented by
[Inria](http://www.inria.fr/index.en.html)'s *Formel* team, headed by
[Gérard Huet](http://cristal.inria.fr/~huet/). Its development continued
within the [Cristal](http://cristal.inria.fr/) team, and its current
successor, [Gallium](http://gallium.inria.fr/).

## The Origin
The Formel team became interested in the ML language in 1980–81. ML was
the *meta-language* of the Edinburgh version of the LCF proof assistant,
both designed by [Robin Milner](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rm135/). It was
implemented by a kind of interpreter written in Lisp by [Mike
Gordon](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/mjcg/), [Robin
Milner](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rm135/) and Christopher Wadsworth. LCF
itself was written partly in ML and partly in Lisp. In order to be able
to use the LCF proof assistant on the various systems in use at Formel
at that time (Multics, Berkeley Unix on Vax, Symbolics), [Gérard
Huet](http://cristal.inria.fr/~huet/) decided to make the ML
implementation compatible with various Lisp compilers (MacLisp,
FranzLisp, LeLisp, ZetaLisp). This work involved [Guy
Cousineau](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~cousinea/) and [Larry
Paulson](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/lcp/). The performance of the ML
implementation was improved by the addition of a compiler.

[Guy Cousineau](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~cousinea/) also added
algebraic data types and pattern-matching, following ideas from [Robin
Milner](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rm135/), which he in turn had borrowed
from Hope, a programming language designed by [Rod
Burstall](http://www.dcs.ed.ac.uk/home/rb/) and [Dave
McQueen](http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~dbm/). At some point, this
implementation was called Le_ML, a name that did not survive. It was
used by [Larry Paulson](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/lcp/) to develop
Cambridge LCF and by [Mike Gordon](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/mjcg/)
for the first version of HOL, as recalled in Gordon's [short history of
HOL](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/mjcg/papers/HolHistory.html).

Around 1984, three events motivated us to get even more involved in the
development of ML:

* In Edinburgh, [Luca Cardelli](http://lucacardelli.name/) developed a
 much faster implementation of ML using his *Functional Abstract
 Machine (FAM)*. He also designed his own version of the language,
 known at that time as *Cardelli's ML*.
* [Robin Milner](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rm135/) thought it was a
 good moment to propose a new definition of ML in order to avoid
 divergence between various implementations. He defined the core
 Standard ML language, which was later complemented by a module
 system designed by [Dave
 McQueen](http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~dbm/).
* At the same time, [Pierre-Louis
 Curien](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~curien/) developed a calculus of
 categorical combinators, as well as a correspondence between
 lambda-calculus and categorical combinators, which, as noticed by
 [Guy Cousineau](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~cousinea/), could be seen
 as a compilation technique for ML. Indeed, it was quite close to the
 original implementation technique of Edinburgh ML, but could be
 described, proved correct, and optimized in a simple way. This led
 to the definition of the Categorical Abstract Machine (CAM).

This urged [Guy Cousineau](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~cousinea/) to
develop a new implementation of ML, based on the CAM. However, the
language that we ended up implementing was not Standard ML, but... Caml.
Why? Our main reason for developing Caml was to use it for software
development inside Formel. Indeed, it was used for developing the
[Coq](http://coq.inria.fr/) system, which, following [Thierry
Coquand](http://www.cs.chalmers.se/~coquand/)'s thesis in 1985, became
the team's main aim. We were reluctant to adopt a standard that could
later prevent us from adapting the language to our programming needs. In
particular, Philippe Le Chenadec and [Michel
Mauny](http://cristal.inria.fr/~mauny/) developed syntax manipulation
tools that appeared useful and were incorporated into Caml.
Synchronizing with the Standard ML team before adopting the language
modifications that seemed useful to us would have introduced too much
delay in our work. Furthermore, our philosophy was in conflict with that
of a “standard” language, which is not supposed to evolve too quickly.
We did incorporate into Caml most of the improvements brought by
Standard ML over Edinburgh ML.

## The First Implementation
The first implementation of Caml appeared in 1987 and was further
developed until 1992. It was created mainly by Ascander Suarez. After
Ascander left in 1988, [Pierre Weis](http://cristal.inria.fr/~weis/) and
[Michel Mauny](http://cristal.inria.fr/~mauny/), carried on with the
development and maintenance of the system. This implementation compiled
Caml down to LLM3, the virtual machine of the Le_Lisp system.

[Guy Cousineau](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~cousinea/) modestly recalls:
“I must admit that when the Caml development started, my experience with
programming language implementation was very limited. Relying on the
LLM3 abstract machine and on the Le_Lisp memory allocation and garbage
collection system saved a lot of work but could not lead to high
efficiency. The CAM model led to fast closure construction and good
environment sharing but was poor at environment access and made
optimizations difficult. It also potentially introduced memory leaks,
since useless values were kept inside closures. Also, I had not realized
that it was more important to have good performance on non-functional
programs than on very functional ones. Above all, I had overlooked the
importance of portability and openness. In spite of these inadequacies,
for which I am initially responsible, Ascander, Pierre and Michel did
quite a nice piece of work.”

## Caml Light
In 1990 and 1991, [Xavier Leroy](http://cristal.inria.fr/~xleroy/)
designed a completely new implementation of Caml, based on a bytecode
interpreter written in C. [Damien
Doligez](http://cristal.inria.fr/~doligez/) provided an excellent memory
management system. This new implementation, known as Caml Light, was
highly portable and easily ran on small desktop machines such as Macs
and PCs. It replaced the old Caml implementation and highly helped
promote the use of Caml in education and in research teams. Its support
for data streams and its parsing facilities, due to [Michel
Mauny](http://cristal.inria.fr/~mauny/), were issued from a continued
effort of the Formel team to promote syntax manipulation tools.

## Caml Special Light
In 1995, [Xavier Leroy](http://cristal.inria.fr/~xleroy/) released Caml
Special Light, which improved over Caml Light in several ways. First, an
optimizing native-code compiler was added to the bytecode compiler. This
native-code compiler matched or exceeded the performances of the best
existing compilers for functional languages, and enabled Caml to be more
competitive performance-wise with mainstream imperative programming
languages such as C++. Second, Caml Special Light offered a high-level
module system, designed by [Xavier
Leroy](http://cristal.inria.fr/~xleroy/) and inspired by the module
system of Standard ML. This module system provides powerful abstraction
and parametrization facilities for programming in the large.

## Objective Caml
Type systems and type inference for object-oriented programming has been
a hot area of research since the early 1990's. [Didier
Rémy](http://cristal.inria.fr/~remy/), later joined by [Jérôme
Vouillon](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~vouillon/), designed an elegant and
highly expressive type system for objects and classes. This design was
integrated and implemented within Caml Special Light, leading to the
Objective Caml language and implementation, first released in 1996 and
renamed to OCaml in 2011. Objective Caml was the first language to
combine the full power of object-oriented programming with ML-style
static typing and type inference. It supports many advanced OO
programming idioms (type-parametric classes, binary methods, mytype
specialization) in a statically type-safe way, while these idioms cause
unsoundness or require run-time type checks in other OO languages such
as C++ and Java.

In 2000, [Jacques Garrigue](http://www.math.nagoya-u.ac.jp/~garrigue/)
extended Objective Caml with several new features, which he had been
experimenting with for a few years in the Objective Label dialect of
Objective Caml. Among these features were polymorphic methods, labeled
and optional function arguments, and polymorphic variants.

## The rise of OCaml
Since the late 1990's, OCaml has been steadily gaining in popularity and
attracted a significant user base. In addition to impressive programs
developed in OCaml, the user community also contributed many
high-quality libraries, frameworks and tools in areas ranging from
graphical user interfaces and database bindings to Web and network
programming, cross-language interoperability and static program
analysis. In parallel, the core OCaml development team actively
maintains the base system, improving the quality of the implementation
and porting it to the latest architectures and systems.

## Some Close Relatives
In addition to these mainstream versions of Caml, one should mention
many related compilers. [Michel Mauny](http://cristal.inria.fr/~mauny/)
and [Daniel de Rauglaudre](http://cristal.inria.fr/~ddr/) designed
Chamau, which offers unique syntax manipulation facilities which are now
offered in the Camlp4 pre-processor for OCaml.

[Manuel Serrano](http://www-sop.inria.fr/members/Manuel.Serrano/) and
[Pierre Weis](http://cristal.inria.fr/~weis/) created BIGLOO. Régis
Cridlig made Camlot. Jean Goubault-Larrecq wrote HimML, which features
implicit hash-consing and efficient operations on sets and maps.
[Emmanuel Chailloux](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~emmanuel/) published
CeML. In the *Para* team, Francis Dupont implemented Caml for parallel
machines, while [Luc Maranget](http://cristal.inria.fr/~maranget/) built
Gaml, a compiler for a lazy functional programming language.

## Final Quote
In 1996, [Guy Cousineau](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~cousinea/) wrote:
“Certainly, the history of Caml could have been more linear. However,
through trial and error, a capacity for producing high performance,
portable, and flexible functional programming language implementations
has emerged in France.”


