<!-- ((! set title Github Pull Requests for OCaml development !)) -->

Github Pull Requests for OCaml development: a field report
----------------------------------------------------------
**Gabriel Scherer (INRIA)**

On 2014/01/30, we started an experiment allowing users to submit and 
discussion patches to the OCaml distribution on its Github mirror 
rather than through the existing Mantis bugtracking system. The 
experiment is time-bounded and the decision is due to be revisited in 
late July. 
The main goal of the experiment is to evaluate whether Github makes 
maintainers life easier, by streamlining the patch submission and 
review process and, in particular, encouraging non-maintainers to 
participate in the patch evaluation process. There were also claims of 
usability benefits for the patch submitters themselves, and the more 
subjective aspect of sending a signal that the development is more 
open that sometimes perceived. 

The OCaml Workshop would be an excellent place to present an analysis 
of this experiment, as it happens shortly (in summer-vacation time) 
after the announced bound, and its audience is precisely the people 
that already did or could get evolved in occasional contributions to 
the OCaml distribution (as a subset of the larger OCaml ecosystem). 

If this proposal is accepted, I plan to collect, synthesize and 
present data in several distinct and complementary forms: 

(1) Raw numbers: can we observe a significant change in contribution 
habits (patch submission and patch *review*) sparkled by the 
experiment? 

(2) Collected user stories: what is the subjective perception of the 
various people that interacted with the Github interface? 

(3) Manual classification: which form of contributor interaction were 
observed? What are is a broad categorization of the patches sent 
(in nature, and in how they got handled through the review 
process)? Is there any difference from the Mantis statu quo? 

Raw numbers are easy to misinterpret (for example, there probably is 
a running trend of increased activity since 4.00.0 that we should be 
careful to separate from Github specifics); but user stories and 
content classification could help form a more robust view of the 
development process.